Paper: Using Numba for GPU acceleration of Neutron Beamline Digital Twins (#819)
scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings: papers/coleman_kendrick/mcvine.tex

% Adds a frame around verbatim environments
\fvset{frame=single,fontsize=\footnotesize,samepage=false}

\urldef{\accrepo}\url{https://github.com/mcvine/acc}

\section{Introduction}

> MCViNE\cite{lin2016mcvine,Lin_2019} is a software package for creating digital twins of neutron scattering experiments using a Monte Carlo ray-tracing approach. 

Reviewer: @mepa is it possible to have the template style show these as "MCViNE[1,2]" instead of "MCViNE[1], [2]"? This looks pretty bad later on when there are multiple citations that would look much nicer as "[3-8]" instead of "[3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8]".

Reviewer 2: @matthewfeickert, the Proceedings use IEEE style citations (see https://pitt.libguides.com/citationhelp/ieee, for example) so each source should have its own brackets. The above does need a space between `MCViNE` and the brackets, though, i.e., `MCViNE \cite{lin2016mcvine,Lin_2019}`.

For multiple citations, one could render "[3] - [8]", if preferred, by citing the first and last sources in the series, separated by a dash, e.g., `\cite{source3} - \cite{source8}`.

> In this method, randomly generated probability packets (representing neutrons) are propagated through a series of components. Each component changes the probability packets according to the physics of the component. 

Reviewer 3: To understand 'physics for the component' needs some explanation for what is a component, or perhaps an example?

Since better explanation for what is a component follows - 'type of the component'?

There is no correlation between packets, so the system is embarrassingly parallel.
These simulations are useful in performing advanced neutron data analysis \cite{lin2022super,islam2019super,sala2022ferrimagnetic,do2022damped,leiner2019frustrated,lin2014UN} as well as in designing novel neutron instruments\,\cite{mamontov2022bwaves,an2022menus,sala2022chess,garlea2022verdi,leighton2022ewald,liu2022pioneer,qian2022centaur,changwoo2022expanse,ankner2023cinematic,hassina2023cupi2d,linjiao2023guide_misalignment} and sample environments \cite{stone2019design,niedziela2017design}. Specifically, it has been used in the initial designs for instruments in the Second Target Station at the Spallation Neutron Source\,\cite{mason2006spallation} at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. 

> Currently, MCViNE only runs on CPUs which is a bottleneck in large simulations with tens of billions of neutrons, and in modelling complex multiple scattering, with some simulations taking months to complete. Due to the massively parallel nature of Monte Carlo methods, bringing GPU acceleration to these simulations would offer superior performance and scalability. MCViNE was originally implemented in C++ and parallelized using MPI, with bindings to Python for user interaction; however, extensibility for the end user can be very difficult.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, MCViNE only runs on CPUs which is a bottleneck in large simulations with tens of billions of neutrons, and in modelling complex multiple scattering, with some simulations taking months to complete. Due to the massively parallel nature of Monte Carlo methods, bringing GPU acceleration to these simulations would offer superior performance and scalability. MCViNE was originally implemented in C++ and parallelized using MPI, with bindings to Python for user interaction.
However, extensibility for the end user can be very difficult.
```

Improper use of a semicolon, use two sentences instead.

> To further improve performance and to create an easily extensible code base, Python and Numba\cite{lam2015numba} were chosen to create a new package of MCViNE providing GPU acceleration, \texttt{mcvine.acc}\footnote{\accrepo}. Numba is an open-source JIT (just-in-time) compiler for Python using LLVM to generate efficient machine code and supports GPUs using NVIDIA CUDA. Numba is designed for scientific computing and can support NumPy arrays and functions. Currently, we are only using Numba for its GPU capabilities. This accelerated MCViNE package is compatible with existing MCViNE scripts, and using a mixture of CPU and GPU components is supported.

Reviewer 3: 1. Glad to see the full form of `JIT`. The same for `LLVM` as well?
2. Someone who hasn't used Numba would get more curious with - "we are only using Numba for its GPU capabilities" - as to what the rest of the capabilities are, and why aren't those used. 
"Only" is begging to ask more questions.

> To further improve performance and to create an easily extensible code base, Python and Numba\cite{lam2015numba} were chosen to create a new package of MCViNE providing GPU acceleration, \texttt{mcvine.acc}\footnote{\accrepo}. Numba is an open-source JIT (just-in-time) compiler for Python using LLVM to generate efficient machine code and supports GPUs using NVIDIA CUDA. Numba is designed for scientific computing and can support NumPy arrays and functions. Currently, we are only using Numba for its GPU capabilities. This accelerated MCViNE package is compatible with existing MCViNE scripts, and using a mixture of CPU and GPU components is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To further improve performance and to create an easily extensible code base, Python and Numba\cite{lam2015numba} were chosen to create a new package of MCViNE providing GPU acceleration, \texttt{mcvine.acc}\footnote{\accrepo}. Numba is an open-source JIT (just-in-time) compiler for Python using LLVM to generate efficient machine code and supports GPUs using NVIDIA CUDA. Numba is designed for scientific computing and can support NumPy arrays and functions. Currently, we are only using Numba for its GPU capabilities. This accelerated MCViNE package is compatible with existing MCViNE scripts, and using a mixture of CPU and GPU components is supported.
```

`\texttt{mcvine.acc}\footnote{\accrepo}` Don't make https://github.com/mcvine/acc a footnote. This code deserves to be a full citation (consider adding a [CITATION.cff](https://citation-file-format.github.io/) to your repo :rocket:). Is this code going to be/or is currently distributed to PyPI or conda-forge?

This paper will first describe how MCViNE works at a high-level, how components and instruments are created using Numba to generate CUDA kernels, and how Numba is also used to generate kernels for complex sample geometries and scatterers. 
Next, we will compare performance of the CPU version of MCViNE to the Numba GPU version. 
After that we will describe how the MCViNE GPU acceleration will be used in the larger context of a workflow for data analysis. 
Finally, we will discuss our experience using Numba for this application.

\section{Method}

\subsection{MCViNE Overview}

> MCViNE simulations are run from a script that defines an instrument, where an instrument is composed of multiple components. A simple 4 component instrument is shown in figure \ref{fig:instrument}. Full instruments may have several hundred components. Each instrument script is run with a specified number of probability packets, where each packet has several state variables: position, velocity, spin, probability, and time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MCViNE simulations are run from a script that defines an instrument, where an instrument is composed of multiple components. A simple 4 component instrument is shown in Figure~\ref{fig:instrument}. Full instruments may have several hundred components. Each instrument script is run with a specified number of probability packets, where each packet has several state variables: position, velocity, spin, probability, and time.
```

Properly capitalize.

> At a high-level, a component takes a neutron as input and performs some action on the neutron. Components can be attached to the instrument at a specified position and orientation. Some of the main component types are sources, guides, monitors, samples, and detectors. In a full instrument simulation, neutrons are generated from a source component and are then propagated through each component in the instrument. Sample components are a special type of component that has additional input files to specify geometry and material composition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At a high-level, a component takes a neutron as input and performs some action on the neutron. Components can be attached to the instrument at a specified position and orientation. Some of the main component types are sources, guides, monitors, samples, and detectors. In a full instrument simulation, neutrons are generated from a source component and are propagated through each component in the instrument. Sample components are a special type of component with additional input files to specify geometry and material composition.
```

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.45\textwidth, trim={3.5cm 1cm 3.5cm 5cm}]{figures/mcvine_acc_instrument_component_fig.pdf}
    \caption{Example instrument with four components: a source, guide, sample, and detector.}
    \label{fig:instrument}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Component Hierarchy}

One of the major benefits of using Python for this application is the ease of utilizing an object-oriented design and polymorphism.

> Each component inherits from a base \texttt{AbstractComponent} class. This \texttt{AbstractComponent} class requires a ``propagate'' method to be defined which takes in a neutron for the first parameter. The ``propagate'' method is responsible for defining the action of the component and is decorated with \texttt{@cudajit} to indicate that it is a CUDA kernel. An example of creating a simple component can be seen below. Additional parameters can be specified, but must also be defined in the \texttt{propagate\_params} list.

Reviewer: "can be seen below" Please do not make reference to direction in papers. Please reference the material specifically by its Figure/Equation/Table/Listing number.

There are several major types of components that have their own subclasses: \texttt{SampleBase}, \texttt{SourceBase}, and \texttt{MonitorBase}.

\vspace{1mm}
\input{code/arm.tex}

\subsection{CUDA Kernel Generation for an Instrument}

> In order to run a simulation from an input instrument script, \texttt{mcvine.acc} first generates a GPU kernel from the instrument specification. The input script will be parsed and then ``compiled'' to form an instrument kernel. This compiled version is then imported and executed to run the simulation. An example of a simple MCViNE instrument script containing a source, guide, and monitor can be seen below.

Reviewer: Why is "compiled" in quotes? If you view this as not actual compilation then please use more precise language until you have defined what you mean.

> In order to run a simulation from an input instrument script, \texttt{mcvine.acc} first generates a GPU kernel from the instrument specification. The input script will be parsed and then ``compiled'' to form an instrument kernel. This compiled version is then imported and executed to run the simulation. An example of a simple MCViNE instrument script containing a source, guide, and monitor can be seen below.

Reviewer: Same comment as before on "seen below".

\vspace{1mm}

> \input{code/acc_sgm_instrument_trimmed.tex}

Reviewer: This is split across multiple columns. It would be better to reformat things, but if it is too painful/difficult this is okay as is.

\vspace{1mm}

When \texttt{mcvine.acc} is called on the above instrument script, a new Python file is generated which contains a Numba CUDA kernel for the entire instrument. Each of the instrument components' \texttt{process} kernels are collected and inserted to form a generic kernel in this process. This generated kernel effectively models a neutron travelling through the entire instrument.

> Depending on the kernel launch configuration, each GPU thread might be responsible for more than one neutron. An example of a compiled instrument script can be seen in the code listing below. As seen in the script, a CUDA kernel is defined using Numba. Inside the kernel, each GPU thread will loop over the number of neutrons it is processing. Each \texttt{propagate} function has a number appended to it. These propagate functions correspond to the Component's propagate method. For this case, ``\texttt{propagate0}'' matches the Source component propagate kernel, ``\texttt{propagate1}'' matches the Guide component propagate kernel, and so on. The \texttt{applyTransformation} function is inserted in-between instrument components and is responsible for translating the position/velocity of a neutron in the current component's coordinate system to that of the next component by applying a transformation matrix.

Reviewer: Same comment as before on "below".

> Depending on the kernel launch configuration, each GPU thread might be responsible for more than one neutron. An example of a compiled instrument script can be seen in the code listing below. As seen in the script, a CUDA kernel is defined using Numba. Inside the kernel, each GPU thread will loop over the number of neutrons it is processing. Each \texttt{propagate} function has a number appended to it. These propagate functions correspond to the Component's propagate method. For this case, ``\texttt{propagate0}'' matches the Source component propagate kernel, ``\texttt{propagate1}'' matches the Guide component propagate kernel, and so on. The \texttt{applyTransformation} function is inserted in-between instrument components and is responsible for translating the position/velocity of a neutron in the current component's coordinate system to that of the next component by applying a transformation matrix.

Reviewer: Your choice, but ``\texttt{propagate0}'' doesn't really need the quotes. Just having these as `texttt` would be fine.

\vspace{1mm}
\input{code/acc_sgm_instrument_compiled.tex}
\vspace{1mm}

\subsection{Sample Kernels and CSG}

One unique feature of MCViNE is its sample component, which allows for simulation of complex sample/sample environment and detector systems with flexible, sophisticated geometry and scattering physics. 
This feature has enabled simulations that produce virtual experiment data that closely resemble real experimental data and make MCViNE a useful tool for both instrument design and advanced data analysis. 

A Sample is made up of a Sample Assembly which has ``Shape'' and ``Phase'' tags. 

> The ``Shape'' tag contains the geometry specification and the ``Phase'' tag together with additional xml file(s) named ``\{name\}-scatterer.xml'' contain the scattering physics specification, where ``\{name\}'' is the name of a scatterer included in the sample assembly. A simple example for an aluminum (Al) sphere is shown below. 

Reviewer: It would be easier to read this if the terms here were typeset with `texttt` instead of quotes.

> The ``Shape'' tag contains the geometry specification and the ``Phase'' tag together with additional xml file(s) named ``\{name\}-scatterer.xml'' contain the scattering physics specification, where ``\{name\}'' is the name of a scatterer included in the sample assembly. A simple example for an aluminum (Al) sphere is shown below. 

Reviewer: Same comment as before RE: "shown below".

> The ``Shape'' tag contains the geometry specification and the ``Phase'' tag together with additional xml file(s) named ``\{name\}-scatterer.xml'' contain the scattering physics specification, where ``\{name\}'' is the name of a scatterer included in the sample assembly. A simple example for an aluminum (Al) sphere is shown below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``Shape'' tag contains the geometry specification and the ``Phase'' tag together with additional XML file(s) named ``\{name\}-scatterer.xml'' contain the scattering physics specification, where ``\{name\}'' is the name of a scatterer included in the sample assembly. A simple example for an aluminum (Al) sphere is shown below. 
```

XML is caps.

\vspace{1mm}
\input{code/sampleassembly.tex}
\vspace{1mm}

Simple shapes can be created easily, but more complex shapes can be created too.
To create the sample geometry, MCViNE uses Constructive Solid Geometry (CSG). 
CSG can create complex geometries from operations such as intersection and union, on primitive shapes, such as cubes, spheres, and cylinders. 

> For example, figure \ref{fig:csg} shows how CSG is used to create an annular sample can from cylindrical primitives. This can is similar to those used in experiment design\cite{PhysRevB.107.094511}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, Figure~\ref{fig:csg} shows how CSG is used to create an annular sample can from cylindrical primitives. This can is similar to those used in experiment design\cite{PhysRevB.107.094511}.
```

First a ring for the outside of the can is made from two cylinders by subtraction, then a ring for the inside of the can is also made from two cylinders.  These two rings are then combined in union with another cylinder that is the bottom of the can. 

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[trim = {7cm 0 0 0 }, width=\columnwidth]{figures/mcvine_CSG_example.png}
    \caption{An example of an annular sample can  created using CSG (right) and how the primitives and operations are specified in XML as input to MCViNE.}
    \label{fig:csg}
\end{figure}

Ray tracing routines are implemented as CUDA kernels for these primitive shapes and operations. To support complex geometries that might involve many operations and shapes, the visitor pattern is used which constructs a single CUDA kernel to handle the ray intersection of that shape. This highlights one of the major advantages of using Python and Numba, as the ability to generate a CUDA kernel dynamically at run-time would be much more difficult to implement in other languages.

> The specification of the scattering physics of a particular neutron scatterer is described in a dedicated "scatterer" xml file, where one or more sample kernels can be specified.
> An example of a scatterer xml file for specifying scattering physics can be seen below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specification of the scattering physics of a particular neutron scatterer is described in a dedicated "scatterer" XML file, where one or more sample kernels can be specified.
An example of a scatterer XML file for specifying scattering physics can be seen below.
```

\vspace{1mm}
\input{code/isotropic_box-scatterer.tex}
\vspace{1mm}

Note the format is extensible enough to allow a composite scatterer with multiple scatters, though at the time of writing this paper the Numba version of this functionality is still under development.

\section{Results}

> Two types of comparisons were performed to show the usefulness of \texttt{mcvine.acc}. First, simulations comparing the CPU and GPU shows a significant performance gain by using a GPU.

Reviewer: Where do they show this? If it is in Figure 3 then reference it.

Second, simulations from a more complete instrument solution showing equivalent outcomes from a CPU and GPU simulation were performed. 

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering

>     \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{figures/mcvine_hss_isotropic_timings.png}

Reviewer: See general review remark RE: figure axis labels.

>     \caption{Time versus neutron counts for CPU (blue line) and GPU (orange line) for a simple instrument using a homogeneous single scatterer (HSS) with a aluminum sphere sample.}

Reviewer 3: Green line is multi-core CPU. Perhaps that mention will be useful here in the caption as well. It may be worth mentioning explicitly how many cores of the GPU - either in the plot or in the caption or both.

Same comment for the next 2 figure captions as well.

Reviewer: +1 to this please.

    \label{fig:results_isotropic_sphere}
\end{figure}

For the first study, we focus on the performance gain achieved by the GPU accelerated version of MCViNE.
We used a simple instrument consisting of a source, sample, and detector to focus on the sample assembly component. 

> We performed tests with two different samples: a simple spherical sample with an isotropic scattering kernel, and a second with a more complex Uranium Nitride (UN) sample.

Reviewer 3: It would be useful for a reader to know why Aluminium sphere and UN samples were used. Say, for example, that is the standard, or something short.

The UN sample is treated as a 1 cm polycrystalline cube to match the experimental configuration\cite{aczel2012quantum}. 
The UN structure is the same as  rock salt structure with the light N atoms located between the much heavier U atoms.  
The N vibrates as a harmonic oscillator which provides equally spaced lines in energy transfer $E$.
The lines are modeled in MCViNE with a sample scattering kernel containing a composite of $E(Q)$ kernels with constant $E$ values of a 50 meV spacing from 0 to 350 meV.

> Figure \ref{fig:results_isotropic_sphere} shows the performance of the isotropic sphere sample for the CPU version of MCViNE with one and 16 cores (blue and green curves) compared to the GPU version of MCViNE (orange curve). At $10^{12}$ neutrons, \texttt{mcvine.acc} achieves a speedup of 1725x over a single core and 133x over 16 cores.

Reviewer 3: It is redundant to add here that this figure is - for a simple instrument using a homogeneous single scatterer (HSS) with a aluminum sphere sample - but may be useful for the uninitiated.

(I had to go a bit back and forth to make sure all 3 figures are different.)

Reviewer: Improved figure captions that do more than state what quantities are plotted would help here.

Two versions of this simulation were run for the UN sample: the first with only single scattering events (Figure \ref{fig:results_ss}), and the second with single and multiple scattering events (Figure \ref{fig:results_ms}).
Single scattering was implemented first to verify the overall workflow and kernel generation of \texttt{mcvine.acc}. Multiple scattering was then added to fully capture the realistic scattering physics.
Multiple scattering is much more computationally intensive since each neutron can scatter more than once.

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{figures/mcvine_un_ss_timings.png}
    \caption{Time versus neutron counts for CPU (blue line) and GPU (orange line) for the UN instrument with single scattering.}
    \label{fig:results_ss}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{figures/mcvine_un_ms_timings.png}
    \caption{Time versus neutron counts for CPU (blue line) and GPU (orange line) for the UN instrument with multiple scattering.}
    \label{fig:results_ms}
\end{figure}

> For the UN single scattering case, figure \ref{fig:results_ss} shows that for $10^{11}$ neutrons, the GPU version obtained a speedup of 383x over a single core, and 33x over 16 cores. For the UN multiple scattering case, figure \ref{fig:results_ms} shows that for $10^{10}$ neutrons, the GPU version obtained a speedup of 137x over a single core, and 10x over 16 cores. Comparing the speedup achieved for the simple isotropic sphere to the UN with single and multiple scattering shows the additional complexity required for the UN sample. A speedup of 10x over 16-core CPU for the UN multiple scattering case is still significant as some simulations can take on the order of days to months to complete.

Reviewer 3: A table format to display the speed up for various samples?

Reviewer: +1 to this please.

> For the UN single scattering case, figure \ref{fig:results_ss} shows that for $10^{11}$ neutrons, the GPU version obtained a speedup of 383x over a single core, and 33x over 16 cores. For the UN multiple scattering case, figure \ref{fig:results_ms} shows that for $10^{10}$ neutrons, the GPU version obtained a speedup of 137x over a single core, and 10x over 16 cores. Comparing the speedup achieved for the simple isotropic sphere to the UN with single and multiple scattering shows the additional complexity required for the UN sample. A speedup of 10x over 16-core CPU for the UN multiple scattering case is still significant as some simulations can take on the order of days to months to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the UN single scattering case, Figure~\ref{fig:results_ss} shows that for $10^{11}$ neutrons, the GPU version obtained a speedup of 383x over a single core, and 33x over 16 cores. For the UN multiple scattering case, Figure~\ref{fig:results_ms} shows that for $10^{10}$ neutrons, the GPU version obtained a speedup of 137x over a single core, and 10x over 16 cores. Comparing the speedup achieved for the simple isotropic sphere to the UN with single and multiple scattering shows the additional complexity required for the UN sample. A speedup of 10x over 16-core CPU for the UN multiple scattering case is still significant as some simulations can take on the order of days to months to complete.
```

Next we run a more complete test with the Uranium Nitride sample to verify the same result between the CPU and GPU.
A study on UN was the first time the multiple-scattering as well as the multiple-scattering physics in the CPU version of MCViNE was used to explain experimental results \cite{lin2014UN}. Specifically, one of the puzzles from the measured data was that the equally spaced lines extend over all $Q$.  It was determined that this was due to multiple scattering. 
To more conclusively check this, a CPU simulation using MCViNE was performed\cite{lin2014UN}.  At the time this took days to do such calculations.  Therefore this is a good test case to check the speed increase gained by using the GPUs.

\begin{figure}[h]
\centering

> \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{figures/UN-ARCS-iqe.pdf}

Reviewer: As a color map is used here there should be information in the caption and ideally on the figure as well on how to interpret the color.

Reviewer: @ckendrick Can you update the caption to explain the color map (a third dimension for this figure)?

Author: Sure, I will update the caption! Sorry, that must've slipped through.

Reviewer: > Color indicates the scattering intensity where brighter regions represent higher intensity.

This is good enough, but out of curiosity are the actual intensity values not relevant, but more that things are just above threshold?

Author: I'm probably not the best person to answer this question but roughly yes, I believe that is correct.

The intensity values are produced during the data reduction step, and I believe this reduction step effectively normalizes the intensity based on the data.
For the experimental data, the intensity is essentially the total neutron event counts measured by the detectors in the instrument. Since the neutron event counts can depend on several factors (time of experiment, etc), I think it is more useful to look at the "normalized" intensity since it better captures the overall scattering response of the material.

For the simulation data, we determine the intensity by calculating the sum of all the probabilities of the Monte Carlo packets ("neutrons") that hit a particular area (for this case, these areas correspond to the actual instrument detectors since we are modeling the physical instrument geometry with the same material properties).

Hopefully that helps! If you're still interested, [the original paper with these results](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.89.144302) goes into more details of both the experimental setup and simulation.

\caption{The results from the UN simulation on ARCS with multiple scattering turned on.  Note that the equally spaced lines are visible even at low $Q$.}
\label{fig:UN_plot}
\end{figure}

> In this case the incident beamline simulation (the simulation up to the sample containing the SNS source, guide choppers and slits) for the ARCS instrument\cite{stone2014comparison} was run using McStas\cite{Willendrup:2020aa,Willendrup:2021aa} inside a workflow tool\cite{10.1007/978-3-031-23606-8_9}.

Reviewer 3: Full forms for `SNS` and `ARCS` please.

The results are shown in Figure \ref{fig:UN_plot} and \ref{fig:UN_cuts}.
The agreement between the CPU and GPU versions of MCViNE is evident in Figure \ref{fig:UN_cuts}. 
The majority of the speed increase for this particular simulation is in the incident beam line simulation leveraging the McStas GPU implementation, and is now under an hour rather than days.
The MCViNE part of the simulation has a speed up similar to the simpler test from $\sim 10^3$ to $\sim 10^2$s.
For a virtual neutron experiment the incident beam simulation can often be reused in a series of source-sample-detector simulations with various sample and detector configurations.
For example, a researcher may run the case with and without multiple scattering or a series of related samples. Thus fast sample simulations are critical to the overall speed of experimental analysis.

\begin{figure}[H]
\centering

> \includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{figures/Constant_E_cuts.pdf}

Reviewer: Please do not obscure visualization with plot legends. If something is going to be plotted it should be visible. Please resize the plot axes so that the legend is visible without obscuring any components of the plot.

Using Numba for GPU acceleration has enabled more sophisticated data analysis for neutron scattering and instrument design, while overall lowering the development cost needed to obtain significant performance improvements. The techniques used in this project could also be applied to other scientific computing applications.

\section{Acknowledgements}
For initial Framework development and instrument component development, this research used resources of the Spallation Neutron Source Second Target Station Project at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL). Sample development was sponsored by ORNL's Laboratory Director's Research and Development Fund. ORNL is managed by UT-Battelle LLC for DOE’s Office of Science, under Contract No. DE-AC05-00OR22725.

> The US government retains and the publisher, by accepting the article for publication, acknowledges that the US government retains a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable, worldwide license to publish or reproduce the published form of this manuscript, or allow others to do so, for US government purposes. DOE will provide public access to these results of federally sponsored research in accordance with the DOE Public Access Plan (\url{http://energy.gov/downloads/doe-public-access-plan}).

Reviewer: Is there are citeable form of the DOE Public Access Plan?

Reviewer: > Citable DOE public access plan: To my knowledge, I am not aware of a citable version of this. I can continue to look into this. However, we are required to display this full text and link even if there is a citable form available.

Okay. While it is always nice to have stable documents for citation if you're required to provide the full text and link then that's fine.

Author: I agree. I believe the link should hopefully be stable over time and will always direct to the page with the most current DOE Public Access Plan. You can see there is a 2014 version and a 2023 version currently at the link.
 
The other best citable form I found was the specific US regulation for this, but I'm not sure how stable this would be either (long-term):
https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-48/part-970/section-970.5227-2

Reviewer: > I believe the link should hopefully be stable over time and will always direct to the page with the most current DOE Public Access Plan. You can see there is a 2014 version and a 2023 version currently at the link.

Ah okay. :+1:
